Documentation (#33)
dtn7/dtn7-go: docs/install.md

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Markus Sommer

SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
-->

> # Installation Instructions

Reviewer: How about providing a dockerized / Kubernetes option? I'd be interested in working on that.

Reviewer 2: @mogren: I would be very happy about a short documentation and a possible example of use. Thanks a lot for your help.

By the way, there are already two Dockerfiles for dnt7-go. One from @jonashoechst exists for CORE in the [_tutorial_ branch](https://github.com/dtn7/dtn7-go/tree/tutorial/contrib/coreemu). Another one is in the [dtn7-playground repository](https://github.com/dtn7/dtn7-playground). Thus, there should already be some inspiration for the Docker part.

## Manual

- Install the *Go Programming language*, either through your package manager, or from [here](https://golang.org/dl/).
- Clone the [source repository](https://github.com/dtn7/dtn7-go).
- Check out the most recent release tag. Or don't and just build the `HEAD`, but we don't promise that it won't be broken.

> - (Optional) Run `GO111MODULE=on go test ./...` in the repository root to make sur we didn't screw up too badly.

Reviewer: Nit: "make sure", not "sur"

Reviewer 2: The `GO111MODULE` environment variable is a thing of the past. As the lowest supported Go version is 1.13, we can just ignore this one; compare [release notes](https://golang.org/doc/go1.13#modules).

Furthermore, for tests the race detector can be used, as we are doing within the CI. On the downside, this takes a lot more of your time and consumes more resources. For testing scenarios, one can also build `dtnd` with the `-race` flag to detect some faulty behavior not covered by the tests.

```suggestion
- (Optional) Run `go test ./...` in the repository root to make sure we didn't screw up too badly.
```

> - Run `GO111MODULE=on go build ./...` in the repositry root to build both `dtnd` and `dtn-tool`

Reviewer 2: This should only build the source code, but unfortunately does not create the binaries.

```suggestion
- Run `go build ./cmd/dtnd && go build ./cmd/dtn-tool` in the repositry root to build both `dtnd` and `dtn-tool`
```

Reviewer 2: Also `s/repositry/repository/`.

> If you want to run `dtnd` as a service, you might also want to do the following:

Reviewer 2: The following section is very targeted to a specific setup; a generic GNU/Linux with systemd. Thus, this might be moved to the "Other Linux" section. You might wanna also add a reference from, e.g., Arch Linux to this section.

- Put the config-file (`cmd/dtnd/configuration.toml`) in `/etc/dtn7`
- Put the systemd-service (`contrib/systemd/service/dtn7.service`) in `/etc/systemd/system`
- Probably run `systemctl daemon-reload` for good measure
- Create the working directory `/var/lib/dtn7`

> - Create a `dtn7` user like this: `sudo useradd -r -s /sbin/nologin -d /var/lib/dtn7 dtn7`

Reviewer 2: The other commands were also without `sudo`.

```suggestion
- Create a `dtn7` user like this: `useradd -r -s /sbin/nologin -d /var/lib/dtn7 dtn7`
```

- Set ownership of the working directory `chown dtn7:dtn7 /var/lib/dtn7`
- Start the service: `systemctl start dtn7`

If you install the arch-package, we do all of that for you.

## Automatic

For some select platforms, packages are provided. (Footnote: ''select'' in this case means those platforms that don't make it 
prohibitively complicated to package for them - looking at you, Debian)

### NixOS

If you're the kind of person who uses Nix, I assume you know how to install software on your system.

> Because I most certainl don't.

Reviewer 2: Rude :P
I will add a commit with a minimal explanation to this PR later.

Reviewer 2: I have updated this section.

### Arch Linux

Install it from the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/dtn7) either manually, or using your favourite aur-helper.

The package also installs the config file & systemd-service.

> Also takes care of directory & user creation.

Reviewer 2: Might be nitpicking, but can you please replace `&` with `and` in the two previous lines.

Start daemon using `systemctl start dtn7`

### Other Linux

We would like to provide packages for all distributions, however we're not really sure how.
Attempts at using the *Open SUSE Build Service* were unsuccessfull, since the build VMs don't have internet access and therefore can't get the dependencies from `go.mod`.

If you know how to (automatically) build and packe go applications for other distros, please contact us.

### MacOS

Use [brew](https://github.com/jonashoechst/homebrew-hoechst/blob/master/dtn7.rb), I guess.

> If there's anything special about doing it, someone should probably describe that here.

Reviewer 2: @jonashoechst: Would you mind to add your two cents here? Thanks.

Reviewer 3: I've updated the macOS installation according to the newly created homebrew-dtn7 repo.

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

prohibitively complicated to package for them - looking at you, Debian)

### Nix / NixOS

Nix is a purely functional package manager for Linux or macOS.
NixOS is a Linux distribution based on Nix.

There is a [dtn7 Nix User Repository (NUR)](https://github.com/dtn7/nur-packages) which contains two versions of dtn7-go.

- The `dtn7-go` package for the latest release,
- and the `dtn7-go-unstbale` package which is always the latest `master` branch's `HEAD`.

Both packages are automatically bumped after changes in the dtn7-go repository.

You can import and install one of those dtn7 packages as described in the [dtn7 NUR's README](https://github.com/dtn7/nur-packages).
Alternatively, all [NURs](https://github.com/nix-community/NUR) can be included and a dtn7-go version installed from those.

### Arch Linux

Install it from the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/dtn7) either manually, or using your favourite aur-helper.

The package also installs the config file & systemd-service.
Also takes care of directory & user creation.

Start daemon using `systemctl start dtn7`

### Other Linux

We would like to provide packages for all distributions, however we're not really sure how.

> Attempts at using the *Open SUSE Build Service* were unsuccessfull, since the build VMs don't have internet access and therefore can't get the dependencies from `go.mod`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attempts at using the *Open SUSE Build Service* were unsuccessful, since the build VMs don't have internet access and therefore can't get the dependencies from `go.mod`.
```

> If you know how to (automatically) build and packe go applications for other distros, please contact us.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you know how to (automatically) build and package go applications for other distributions or package managers, please contact us.
```
